The VHA Procurement and Logistics Office,
is one of the largest procurement
and supply groups within the federal government,
and is responsible for many of
the supply chain activities that you have learned about.
Meeting customer demand and providing
superior service is one of the most
important benefits of good logistics management.
Consumers demand better service and
this mandate has ripple effects up
the supply chain, creating a need
for shippers to provide fast, accurate, and quality service.
Logistics management is responsible
for satisfying customer demands.
Logistics management is also important
for creating visibility into a company's supply chain.
Advanced transportation management systems,
or TMS, analyze historical data and
track realtime movement of goods into and out of a business.
Logistics managers can use this
information for process optimization
and avoiding potential disruptions.
TMS data analysis keeps a company's
supply chain moving more efficiently,
while gaining operational insight.
Proper logistics management, drives increased revenue.
Improved customer service can bring
a good reputation to a company's
brand and generate more business
and supply chain visibility creates
opportunity for major cost savings in operations.
Logistics management will give a
company control over inbound freight,
keep inventory at optimal levels,
organize the reverse flow of goods,
and ensure freight moves on the
proper transportation modes, all of which
can cut costs significantly.
With the growing complexity of
logistics management, many companies select
third-party logistics provider,
or 3PLs, to manage some or all of their logistics functions.
3PLs have expertise and advanced
technology to cut costs and improve processes,
much more efficiently than companies can in-house.